Admixture
    A combined substance made from two or more types of Essentia. In chemistry, this would be called a "Compound".

Catalyst
    An object required for Fabrication or Inundation that does not get consumed.
    There is a special Catalyst slot on the Circle of Fabrication/Inundation GUI.

Distillation
    The alchemical process in which an object or fluid is destroyed and rendered into Essentia or Admixtures.
    Performed at an Alembic or at a Distillery.

Essentia
    A distilled substance in its most fundamental form. In chemistry, this would be called an "Element".

Exaltation
    The alchemical process in which Essentia is combined with Quintessence or Antessence, resulting in a different type of Essentia within the same Court.

Fabrication
    The alchemical process in which Admixtures are consumed to create objects.
    Some objects that can be Distilled cannot be directly Fabricated—Fabrication can usually only create raw materials.
    Some acts of Fabrication may require a Catalyst or Medium.
    Performed at a Circle of Fabrication.

Fixation
    The alchemical process in which two or more types of Essentia are combined into a single Admixture.
    Some types of Admixtures involve bonding Admixtures to Essentia, or Admixtures to other Admixtures.

House
    The "group" that a type of Essentia belongs to.
    The House of Elements contains Ender, Earth, Water, Air, Fire, and Arcane.
    The House of Qualities contains Conceptual, Verdant, Fleshy, Nourishing, Rotten, Mineral, Wrought, and Precious.
    The House of Alchemy contains Nigredo, Albedo, Citrinitas, and Rubedo.
    Antessence, Nulla, and Quintessence do not belong to a House.

Inundation
    The alchemical process in which Admixtures are consumed to create fluids.
    Some acts of Inundation may require a Catalyst or Medium.
    Performed at a Circle of Inundation.

Materia
    Umbrella term for all distilled substances. Materia can be of type "Essentia" or "Admixture". In chemistry, this would be called a "Chemical".

Medium
    A material required for Fabrication/Inundation that is consumed in the process.
    There is a special Medium slot on the Circle of Fabrication/Inundation GUI.

Reagent
    One of four objects used to generate energy in a Circle of Power.

Separation
    The alchemical process in which an Admixture is split into its component parts.
    Performing Separation on Nulla results in one Antessence and one Quintessence.